the consumer is in for a rude awakening
in 2024 as we see big changes big shifts
that are occurring you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you I'm
not only going to give you some opinions
I'm actually going to look at this in
depth I'm going to show you leading
economic indicators I'm going to give
you data that explains it all and no
wasting time let's begin one of the
messages for 2024 let's not waste our
time we don't have enough okay these are
leading economic indicators just think
of it like a bunch of things squeeze
together to give us an idea of where the
direction is right now there are two
points you got to know about this is
that we are showing right now I'll show
you this chart this one as well and this
which all that means all you need to
take from that is that number one it is
likely to show that we are currently in
a recession number two is that we've
likely bottomed out and we are actually
on an upward trajectory that doesn't
mean it can't go the other direction but
that's as of today so let's say as of
the end of 2023 in fact that's where it
is now if there is some sort of major
event if banks start to fail if we start
to encounter something else this war
expansion anything that could change it
but this is based on the current
trajectory why because the financial
World Di Ates what happens and at this
time well even though we haven't seen
rate Cuts we haven't seen any of that
come out of the US or many major
economies that's what the belief is and
so the markets the financial system
lending business operations they go in
advance of it hoping that it will go
that way it can reverse rather quickly
so that's where we lead this off and I
want to show you something more big
companies are set to collapse in 2024
that's me reading the data itself
looking at this more big firms likely to
go bust next year am at the double
whammy of high borrowing cost and
pressure on the consumer budgets I told
you the consumer was feeling it and of
course we know that it is the case we're
looking at this on many different levels
even you know when you have a problem
when the Walmart CEO is saying we got an
issue right now with the consumer
because that's where people would go to
get budget products when they don't have
enough to go around they're going to be
shopping more at Walmart even the dollar
stores they're saying the same thing
what are corporations doing as a result
of this the Smart Ones are actually
going to the dollar stores and saying
what is your criteria okay well we don't
sell anything above $2 $3 $4 whatever it
is okay we're going to put that much of
a quantity in a box and will you buy you
know U you know a million dollars worth
every month something like this yes okay
we'll produce that for you you and so
they start producing products
specifically for these dollar stores and
the dollar store is happy they get a
product that's geared towards them that
the Shopper likes but we didn't do that
you know a few years ago a handful of
years ago now things are changing
especially since 2020 and we have to
understand that yes in fact 2020 did
change everything consumer habits being
one of those okay so of course we will
have these companies that cannot stand
on their own two feet anymore they're
laying people off as we see here we we
can look at the struggle that these
companies are feeling they're closing
down locations they're consolidating
mergers and Acquisitions are taking
place anytime you go through this part
of the cycle which is increasing
interest rates you do have this this is
normal however how far it goes remains
to be seen 2024 is the big one okay
Revenge spending drives ballooning Us
credit card balances unbelievable how
much people are willing to spend but it
seems like an insatiable appetite
because no matter what those credit
cards keep going up and up and up
Americans has spent down their savings
and racked up thatb as the economy hurls
along Burns along but looking at this is
basically saying that the consumer how
long could it actually keep going and
you could see they continue to splurge
in 2023 whether it's Taylor Swift or
other things uh heard that these Taylor
Swift tickets can be literally thousands
of dollars to go see them I'm assuming
that's based on uh scalper prices but
knowing that you can see the examples of
people willing to spend so they are
willing to spend but but as Walmart CEO
says they're being choiceful credit card
balances increased by
4.7%
$1.08 trillion that's just credit cards
that doesn't factor in everything else
and you see as they say highest on
record over 20% interest the balances
that people carry because yeah you can
use your credit card you can rack up
those points and you pay it off before
the end of the month you're good but a
lot of people in fact are carrying a
balance of I've seen examples of $6,000
to
$10,000 and that 20% that likely won't
get paid off we also see the examples of
people from one year into the next
Christmas time they take on that debt
and they literally still have the debt
imagine you bought a gift for somebody
and a year later they are still paying
that
off not healthy at all it shows you that
the no the economy is not healthy just
because they're willing to spend doesn't
make it healthy okay that's there's a
difference there all right as Rate rates
are cut in 2024 if rates are cut that's
the expectation that could change things
that could ease the burden and the pain
on businesses as well as as the consumer
itself student loan borrowers stage a
massive student debt strike student loan
payments are due by tens of millions of
borrowers are refusing or unable to pay
tens of millions this is huge and this
is spreading through social media faced
with the impossible choice of feeding
their kids keeping a roof over their
head or throwing an average of $400 a
month into the Department of Education
incinerator borrowers are rightly
choosing to keep them themselves and
their families financially afloat that's
right 22 million borrowers had payments
due in October but only 13 million
settled their bills 40% of borrowers
failed to make payments do you see this
do you understand this Millions upon
millions of people are not paying those
student loans now what you can take from
that is maybe they think well number one
there's too much debt they can't pay it
back number two is the fact that that
they see some of that debt being wiped
out they're saying hey the
administration's willing to wipe it out
why am I going to pay it maybe my debt
will be wiped up next maybe I'll
classify as part of the criteria that's
allowing them to wipe it off so why
would I do that so they're going on
strike they're sitting back and they're
saying I'm going to wait it out now I
don't know if that's necessarily a good
idea because they might have to pay that
back and it could hurt them long term
but that's what they're doing
what do you think is going to be the
result of this not paying back that
student debt not paying back their debts
and hoping for the best I see it right
now not just with the student debt but
going on and on into other avenues with
the credit card debt the buy now pay
later people are up to their throats and
Beyond they're drowning in debt and at
the highest level ever you know that
there is a crisis that is on right now
now you don't have to call it a
recession because it is a crisis that is
happening look at the statistics okay
key student loan statistics there were
43 million Americans holding uh federal
student loan debt average balance of
38,000 per borrower so you've got people
and by the way $ 1.7 trillion do worth
of student debt in total but the average
person has nearly 40 Grand
in student debt they have to pay that
back as of October that was you know
three years put on hold they have to pay
it back and many of them a large
percentage 40% of the borrowers said no
they're not going to pay back so there's
a big crisis here and like I said it
could be because they're saying I don't
want to and others might say well I
literally can't because I can't afford
my bills so this is a problem that will
not be resolved and so the two options
are very simple the government can wipe
it all out or most of it out or
significantly reduce that um
or what if they were to Simply go into
some sort of default they start taking
from them and we start to enter into
something we've never seen before which
is literally millions and millions of
these people starting to have to
foreclose on their homes they're
starting to default on their credit
cards and one by one by one all the
dominoes start to
fall when that occurs what is the next
step what would happen if you start to
see that Cascade The Dominoes what would
you anticipate we could talk about that
more but I'll tell you now not pretty
pretty inflation's impact on car
ownership all you need to know from this
is broken down into these different
levels over these past couple years just
basically since 2020 everything
surrounding cars has gone up the debt
has gone up no question the amount
people pay per payment has gone up the
overall prices of the vehicles have gone
up nothing is reasonable and nothing is
you know in this realm of that whole 3%
inflation nonsense not even even close
not even close that's the world we live
in today Energy bill price hike takes
effect as record numbers struggle with
debt this is in the UK and once again
people are burdened with the basics yeah
if Louis Vuitton wants to charge more
for their bag or whatever it is well
then you know that's for people to pay
people can afford that that's fine
that's a luxury item but what about on
your energy what about on your food what
about on the basic the essentials well
today more than ever before those are
going up and people can't stand it their
backs are being broken yeah do they need
to go to the Taylor Swift concert no but
hopefully those are people with
disposable income and not those who are
heavily in debt all right but
unfortunately sometimes it's not the way
it goes this is just talking about the
uh food index the fact that it has come
down from its peak great news positive
news the only problem is it doesn't
translate into the stores you go to the
grocery store you haven't seen a 10%
decline in prices well maybe you have
you let me know in the comments did you
here's the question let's take a poll
from the
audience did you experience a 10%
decline or even a 5% decline in prices
at your grocery store yes or no please
let me know
okay so if we have let's do it you
stayed into the end we'll have that
discussion of what happens in the
circumstance where you have this Cascade
this Snowball Effect what happens to
people will they start to fail a
recession maybe officially or not
doesn't matter that
occurs but you do have a widespread
crisis and inevitably
the result of this is some sort of
intervention that intervention could be
directly from the government in the form
of stimulus it could be whatever you
know usually it's targeted at first
during the financial crisis you had
measures going towards real estate but
also the car companies Cash for Clunkers
they had the tarp bailout these things
okay so that kind of took place at the
same time the other type is the Central
Bank the Federal Reserve the
quantitative easing and all that so we
have these multiple things happening at
any given time that creates inflation
and what we know from every previous
cycle is that they will in fact do more
than they did last time so expect that
the inflation that they create will be
more than the last time how do you feel
about 2020 prices up until 20123 into
2024 was that reasonable was that okay
with you well what if and this is what I
tell my finance Friday people and even
on the Sunday
session when I get face to face with
these people we're in a small group I
could be 100% honest I don't need to
worry about algorithms and all that I
tell
them the inflation that we experienced
from 2020 into 2023 imagine we get that
again that's the base case scenario
that's not the extreme the extreme
scenario is like 3 to 4X that so imagine
that being the base case what would you
do what are the actions you take and
what are you going to do now we are at
the beginning of 2024 let's not wait
until the beginning of 2025 before we go
back and realize hey everything's more
expensive than it was before I should
have done a b and c no you got to take
action today right now don't waste any
time so in
2020 um this circumstance created less
consumer choices and they're explaining
in Wall Street Journal why it won't come
back retailers and suppliers say it
didn't pay to offer products for
everyone and consumers customers didn't
care that much when they stopped so
what's happening here is basically the
companies are thinning out their product
lines and they're going towards you know
H you know what that one didn't perform
so well so let's knock it off just like
the stores they're closing more stores
that are not performing well oh we have
too much theft at that store forget it
close the store down everything is being
thinned down less and less and less and
ultimately what I've got here is
basically to say that this is the new
era of less Choice higher prices and
less quality
shrinkflation and you know how basically
I just covered it recently how they will
go through and they water down the
products like whatever you want to call
that you can bro broadly say that that's
strength inflation or even inflation in
a sense that's going on expect that take
the actions as a result of it the people
that I have in my inner circle right
here which is on the finance Fridays
where we discuss the matters at hand
related to the economy related to what's
going on in the markets related to you
know Investments that's on Friday and on
Sunday session we talk about building an
online business why because we want
currency
um currency basically in every way we
want uh the diversification coming
through our currencies we want
diversification coming through our
geographical region because number one
we want to be able to sell to multiple
geographies but we also want that
ability to be mobile to other
geographies that's the that's really the
key points here okay I cannot let an
infinite amount of people in there
there's a limitation on you know if
there's too many people won't be good so
I'm not going to continue to allow
people uh forever we do have a lot of
inquiries recently people are deciding
should I should I not that's up totally
up to you go to the link in the
description right the top there you
click it it will you know show you
everything that's there all the details
it's no no contract it's up to you to
decide I hope that you will join me if
you found this video informative hit
that thumbs up button when you do your
supporting me I want to thank you for
that and as always come back tomorrow
because I got some good stuff for you
I'll see see you then take care